Ambassador ninga thank you so much for
joining me on upfront thank you thank
you uh since October 7th countries all
around the world have been critical of
Israel's campaign in Gaza but it was
South Africa that brought the case to
the icj the international court of
justice why I think you must remember
that
uh we come from a a similar situation as
the as the Palestinians we come from a
party to where we were oppressed we deny
our basic rights and all of that so the
plight of of Palestinians we we we we we
can relate
to um and that we are not able to be
indifferent to such plight because it's
just like ours it's identical to to to
our plight and their Agony we we can
relate to to we are came to a conclusion
that our struggles were similar and we
also came to conclusions that the people
who oppressed us were quite friendly to
one another I mean uh apart South Africa
to a very large extent militarily and
and so on was maintained by Israel so so
so so so we had all those commonalities
and uh we thought that we can't just sit
and do nothing and watch them getting
from bad to worse and that let us do
something something just to stop their
uh their everyday uh
sufferings last Friday the icj uh issued
a provisional ruling uh on your case
South Africa's case against Israel and
the court said that it was quote
plausible that Israel uh had committed
genocidal acts in Palestine the court
called on Israel to take quote all
measures to prevent genocide uh and also
uh to prevent and punish the direct and
public incitement to commit genocide
however despite those rulings or
decisions the world Court stopped short
of calling for a ceasefire uh and that's
what the South African government was
actually asking for oh was that uh
surprising to you it was surprising
because we had hoped that we were going
to get that this is fire because we
still believe that that is the best
under this circumstance
you know uh to get a c fire as a way of
stopping the the the carage you know
that that's this fire will be very but
having said that if you look at these
provisional measures they will actually
be amounting to a ceasefire because it
will be very difficult to carry out
these provisional measures and be able
to reporting in a month's time without
doing things differently you see um so
to let me push you on that a little bit
because is Israel's position is we're
happy to take all measures to prevent
civilian deaths to prevent you know
violence or death Etc because that's
what we've always been doing so they're
going to make the case that whatever the
court is asking them to do they're going
to carry out because they've always been
carrying it out and that the deaths that
we're seeing uh the 26,000 deaths in
three months um are not because they
want to kill people but because Hamas
has left them no Choice by hiding in
hospitals and refugee camps and all this
stuff what do you say to that you see
that those provisional measures as I'm
saying if you if you're talking about uh
people access to to to medical and
Healthcare
facilities all right yeah then it it
means that they must be secured they
must be able to go there they must not
be afraid that they'll be bombed if we
are talking about people having access
to medic to um to water electricity and
all of that it must be available if we
are talking about U humanitarian Aid to
be able to reach where it is most needed
then there must not be any firing that
is going on it must be able to go so it
will be very difficult for Israel to
tell why they should I mean why they
should a school why they they bomb a
school and the carpet bombings that that
we have been we have been seeing our we
can't see you use carpet bombing because
Hamas is hiding behind civilians and all
that doesn't work that way what it says
is that you're indiscriminate in your in
in your killing and I don't think we are
saying they should not chase their
enemies and all of that we're not saying
that but what we are saying leave the
civilians out of this and what worries
us most is the number of young people
children included that are dying that
they seem to be in the majority women
and children are the majority
collectively and of the 20 more than
26,000 people who have died 10,000 of
them are are children it's uh somewhere
around 1% of the overall child
population of Gaza has been killed that
that's a that's a stunning number that's
a lot do do you do you have confidence
that Israel will do anything different
in the aftermath of the ruling and if so
what we don't know we don't know really
we don't know we don't know but I think
that will really depend on the resolve
of International Community because I
think the judges have done their best
and I think they've given us the best
decisions that that they could under the
the circumstances now it's up to
International Community because it's
going to the UN now so it's up to
International Community to make up its
mind whether it wants to protect the
Palestinians you talk about the will of
the of the International Community what
can the International Community do if
Israel says we're not going to change oh
they've got a lot of things they can do
I mean as International Community can do
a lot of things like like for instance
the complete isolation of Israel right
complete 100% isolation of Israel
forcing Israel uh to do to behave in a
certain mind now and that will that will
mean um things like uh uh denying them
uh Market you know um uh in them to the
extreme embargoing them so to say and
all of that they that those measures
have been used before they can still be
used so hence I'm saying it's not as if
International Community doesn't have
ways of dealing with International
Community we do as International
Community have means and leverages and
all of that it is up to us to decide
that we are going to uh follow what the
judges have said and the judges have
told us what we've always been
suspecting there are people who say
there are lots of places that did
something wrong but only the Jewish
state is getting isolated itamar Bing
gav Israel's national security minister
uh in addition to just dismissing the
ruling in and of itself he said heg schm
on his uh ex account uh he also said
that it was
anti-semitic uh do you have a concern uh
or how do you respond to the concern
that the specific choice to bring Israel
to the internet court is an anti-semitic
one you see that that I find also very
very sad you know that you do horrible
things and then you hide behind such
things as anti-em in order to morally
bmail people and to Blackmail us into
submission and keeping quiet that has
been used as as a sck and I I will tell
you how hollow that is that to say that
this is anti-i
some of the most
prominent
um Palestinian supporters in South
Africa are
Jews who are in the Forefront of pushing
that something has to be done there are
South African Jews who were involved in
the anti-ar struggle and are still alive
and they are pushing for this because
they say they can't say apartate was um
um was was wrong but be quiet about the
occupation of of Palestines so now are
we then going to say what these people
the type of people you're talking about
they then call them they say they are
self-hating are they self-hating because
they've got a gut to stand up that what
we are doing is wrong that's why I'm
saying it BEC so sad that for so long
they have managed to do a moral
blackmail on Nations on people and
saying that once you criticize what
they're doing in in Palestine their
oppression of Palestinians and the
slaughter of Palestinians they call that
anti-semitic so I don't know what is
anti-Semitism
anymore Germany uh had previously said
that it would intervene on behalf of
Israel at the world Court saying there
was quote no basis
whatsoever for the accusation of
genocide they argued that uh the
interpretation of genocidal intent has
to be more restrictive yeah um however
an announcement uh came after the icj's
decision where a German foreign minister
analina barbach said that Israel still
must adhere to the icj ruling uh based
on what we see now do you believe that
Germany will be intervening on Israel's
behalf in the next stage of this we
really don't know and of course if
that's what they want to do is their
right let let them do it but we still
are insisting on what we think is
happening in Palestine but why why I
think about Germany and I just think
about the why of it you know you talked
about moral blackmail I mean is there is
there a heightened guilt from European
nations given their own role in the Nazi
Holocaust I don't know well if they feel
guilty they should show it even towards
us that guilt because Africans suffered
under under the British colonialism
under the French colonialism and the
Portuguese colonialism they must feel
guilty when they see us they must do
things that will be will be will be
correcting that history and all what
they stole from from the
continent you see so it needs to be
corrected the lives that we lost and all
we are talking about genocide
now have you heard anyone referring to
the congol Le genocide of 10 million
people 10 million people people killed
by king lold of Belgium have you ever
heard of it nobody talks about that
nobody talks about that so where how is
this sense of guilt not balanced why is
it like that side and not this side so
if there was any they would show it to
us too Ambassador thank you so much for
joining me on FR I appreciate thank you
thank you thank
you